# cs465-fullstack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN
In terms of frontend architecture, different patterns of front-end development are utilized throughout the project. The customer facing portion of the app uses an express routing system that renders HTML templates using handlebars, which provides a convenient solution that can often cut down on redundant markup and handle some basic conditional rendering. The single-page application, on the other hand, uses the Angular framework to handle rendering from within the client. By allocating much of the rendering logic to the client, we increase the speed, scalability and reliability of the application. Similarly, a NoSQL, MongoDB database is utilized on the backend due to its affinity for scalability. 
JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a common means of transferring data from the front end to the back end and vice-versa. JSON is inspired by JavaScript’s structure of objects, however this is the only similarity between the two as they are used for different purposes, much like comparing XML to HTML. 
One instance of code refactoring occurred on the customer facing portion of the app. Prior to refactoring, our HTML template for rendering the trips page was over 100 lines of markup. Through the use of the handlebars template engine, the markup was reduced to a little over 30 lines, which significantly increased the readability of the code.  Reusable UI components can significantly cut down on redundant code and increase performance. 
Testing API endpoints was conducted using Postman to send HTTP requests and view the raw response from the server. Each endpoint was tested using edge cases to ensure that the logic was sound and free of bugs that could create issues within the application. Security was implemented through the use of JSON Web Token (JWT). API routes are protected by an authentication layer. Due to the stateless nature of HTTP, a valid JWT must be passed in for validation with each request to a protected endpoint. 
This course has been very helpful in showing me some common design patterns that occur in full stack development that I can transfer to whatever stack or framework I choose. I found the implementation of JWT based authentication to be particularly useful and is definitely something that I plan to use in future projects. 
